-->A capacitor is a passive two-terminal electronic component that stores electrical energy in an electric field. 
The effect of a capacitor is known as capacitance. 
While some capacitance exists between any two electrical conductors in proximity in a circuit, 
a capacitor is a component designed to add capacitance to a circuit. 
The capacitor was originally known as a condenser or condensator.

-->The physical form and construction of practical capacitors vary widely and many capacitor types are in common use. 
Most capacitors contain at least two electrical conductors often in the form of metallic plates or surfaces separated by a dielectric medium. 
A conductor may be a foil, thin film, sintered bead of metal, or an electrolyte. 
The nonconducting dielectric acts to increase the capacitor's charge capacity. 
Materials commonly used as dielectrics include glass, ceramic, plastic film, paper, mica, air, and oxide layers. 
Capacitors are widely used as parts of electrical circuits in many common electrical devices. 
Unlike a resistor, an ideal capacitor does not dissipate energy.


-->Parallel-plate capacitor:-

The simplest model capacitor consists of two thin parallel conductive plates each with an area of A separated by a uniform gap of thickness d filled with a dielectric with permittivity .
It is assumed the gap d is much smaller than the dimensions of the plates. 
This model applies well to many practical capacitors which are constructed of metal sheets separated by a thin layer of insulating dielectric, 
since manufacturers try to keep the dielectric very uniform in thickness to avoid thin spots which can cause failure of the capacitor.

		C=eA/d

-->For capacitors in parallel:-

Capacitors in a parallel configuration each have the same applied voltage. 
Their capacitances add up.
Charge is apportioned among them by size. 
Using the schematic diagram to visualize parallel plates, 
it is apparent that each capacitor contributes to the total surface area.

	Ceq. = C1 + C2 + C3 + ... + Cn

-->For capacitors in series:-

Connected in series, the schematic diagram reveals that the separation distance, not the plate area, adds up. 
The capacitors each store instantaneous charge build-up equal to that of every other capacitor in the series. 
The total voltage difference from end to end is apportioned to each capacitor according to the inverse of its capacitance. 
The entire series acts as a capacitor smaller than any of its components.

	1/Ceq. = 1/C1 + 1/C2 + 1/C3 + ... + 1/Cn